Instructor: Welcome back.
In this section we are going
to implement Kubernetes ingress context path based routing
in application load balancer.
So let's see the network design
for this entire implementation.
So we already created a VPC
and inside a VPC we have public and private subnets.
We already created a EKS cluster control plane
and also EKS private node group in the private subnets.
In addition to that, we also installed
the ingress controller.
So now we are going to deploy three apps.
So for those three apps we are going to have
those three deployment manifests
and node port service manifests.
So those are nothing but app1 node port service
and app1 deployment app2 node port service
and app2 deployment and app3 node port service
and app3 deployment.
And we are also going to define an ingress service
with context path based routing rules.
So wherein we are going to define a rules like /app1
goes to app1 node port service,
which eventually goes to the app1 pod
and slash app2 context path goes to app2 node port service
which eventually goes to the app2 pod.
And anything with route context goes to app3 pod
via app3 node port service.
So as a user, whenever I access my application
with <ALB-DNS-URL>/ with route context,
so the request will go to app3 pod
via node port service and ingress service.
And the rule is '/'.
And when you access your URL with /app1,
so it comes to your ingress service
and it checks for the rule /app1
and it routes to app1 node port service.
From there it will reach the app1 pod.
And same applies to the app2.
So whenever user accesses with /app2
as the context path in the browser,
request comes to the ingress service
and validates its rule for /app2, the configured service
is going to be app2 node port service.
So it will go there and from there it will go to app2 pod.
So this is what is going to happen
whenever we implement that context path based routing.
So far we have seen the network design
for ingress context path based routing
using the AWS resources.
So you can see EKS cluster control plane
public subnets, private subnets, worker nodes,
all these things.
Also see the same architecture in a different way
using the Kubernetes objects.
How it is going to work
inside the Kubernetes cluster, right?
So you have in AWS Cloud
you have created the AWS EKS cluster.
And in EKS cluster in the Kube system namespace
you have installed the ingress controller.
So ingress controller related deployment
which eventually creates the ingress controller pods
and also you have the ingress web hook service.
So now whenever as a Kubernetes admin using kubectl client
whenever you deploy the Kubernetes objects, right?
So in those objects, whenever you deploy
ingress service related Kubernetes object or a resource,
so this ingress controller keeps watching
the K8s API server which is EKS cluster API server
for finding any ingress services deployed.
And if it finds any ingress services deployed,
immediately it is going to create
the ingress service for us.
And this ingress service is nothing
but whenever this ingress service is created
it's equivalent AWS application load balancer
is created in the AWS Cloud.
And this ingress service already
has context path based routing rules inside that.
And those also will be defined inside this ingress service
and equivalent routing rules also will get created
in the AWS application load balancer, right.
Now, one important thing is so using the K8s admin
using kubectl client only,
you'll also deploy the node port services
and also deployments
for your nginx app1, app2, and then app3.
And whenever user accesses with the /app1 context
so the request will go to app1 nginx app1 pod.
So via ingress service and the rules
it will crosscheck the rules
and it will go to that app1 service
if the context path is app1
and go to that node port service
And from there it will go to the pod.
Same applies for app2 and same applies
for the route context.
Another important thing which we need to be aware of is,
AWS application load balancer and ingress service
are not two different objects.
In other lines, so it is like AWS application load balancer
is not proxying its request to ingress service.
So both are combinedly a single object.
So for depiction purpose in EKS cluster
you call it as ingress service and in AWS Cloud
you call it as AWS application load balancer.
So whenever as a Kubernetes admin,
whenever you provide the ingress service
Kubernetes manifest for K8s API server
when this ingress controller watches
and creates the ingress service.
So this ingress service is nothing but it creates equivalent
AWS application load balancer object, that's all.
So which means users whenever they access anything
/app1, /index.html or anything,
so this entire thing is a single object
and from here the request to goes to the your respective
node port service and from there it will go
to your respective application pod.
But anything under this red boundary
is called a single object.
So this clarifies that there is no proxy
between AWS application load balancer and ingress service.
Next.
So this completes the introductory part
of EKS ALB ingress context path base routing.
In our next lecture, we are going to go ahead
and then practically implement the same use.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye, thank you.